Final Reflection

As with the soundscape, it took me a while to come up with an idea for this project. I think I only note this because usually I come up with an idea for a project, and then go do the project,  so it was a little strange for me to have a medium for a project and then need to come up with the idea as a second step. Anyway, I eventually thought of blog posts that I liked, and especially one that tried to visually represent the amount of times you had left to do things in a rather stunning way. I thought I could try to emulate that. 

I thought that days or years was too easy, and hard to represent, and presidents was kind of a weird way to show someone's life, and amount of books read was too variable, so I eventually settled on seasons. I doodled a bunch of different ways to have icons representing seasons on an image, and liked the way I ended up doing because it has a good rhythm to it, with the seasonal icons dwindling toward the bottom of the screen. 

For the preview, as with the soundscape, I got very little actual work done, it was mostly brainstorming and finding materials, but for the rough draft, I did most of the actual work. Here's a screenshot of the preview and then rough draft:

As you can see, the icons are all there and arranged, as well as the fonts. I felt like it was quite good: I thought that the green faded in a symbolic manner well (and I had to use some non-basic tools to do so) and I was glad about the way that I got the icons to fit on the screen. I was also very conscious about the typefaces that I chose, and I assumed that they were good because I was intentional (more on that later). I was pretty sure I wasn't done completely, so the feedback I got was very helpful. All three people said similar things, which was also very helpful, because it showed me what to focus on. Here's a screenshot of just one of the comments, because it outlines the suggestions that all of them made quite succintly and clearly:

So, for the final edits, I tried to do exactly what the feedback pointed out, because I agreed, and in some sense you can't argue with very similar feedback given by three separate people. I wanted to rearrange the symbols so they made more sense chronologically, as well as doubling the size of the tulip, mess around with the colors, and change the fonts. The tulip part wasn't so hard, and in changing the font on the bottom and realigning the text, I realized I had empty space at the bottom, so I extended the sun icons out, which I think was all very positive and symbolically meaningful change. I also aligned the bottom left text to be left-justified, which I think helped with the rhythm of the piece. Additionally, I played with the colors and gradients to make the background less dull. Here's a screenshot: 

I think that I met all of the baseline criteria. I think the piece guides the viewers' eyes from the headline at the top, down the icons in their pointed, funnel-shaped rhythmic way, and then left to right for the bottom text, and there's even some important negative space around the suns at the bottom that emphasizes those last seasons. I think the message is very clear, as evidenced in the feedback (We all have limited time, so how will you use it?). As I said in my rough draft reflection, I carefully chose typefaces. I originally chose Gill Sans for the top, as it is more familiar and old and comfortable, as the top text is more reflecting on the past, and Franklin Gothic for the bottom text, as it is more harsh and future-focused, like the message of the bottom text. That changed, which I'll talk about in the aspirational section. I used more than 3 layers, which I believe is shown in my GIMP file, although I did collapse layers together at the end to move things around easier, so it may not literally show three layers on the GIMP file. I used at least one tool beyond select, move, and text.

As far as aspirational goes, I think that the rhythm of the piece is very solid, and the negative space emphasizes the sun, which all holds together the message quite well. The message was clearly obvious to the people who gave feedback, and I think it only could have become more clear with the improvements I made based on their feedback. I used several tools above the basic ones, including the paint fill tool, and the more advanced gradient tool. I think my repo is very well organized and I used good commit messages. I also carefully chose two different fonts for the top and bottm for clear reasons, and then changed the bottom one based on feedback. I think people didn't like the Franklin Gothic text because it was too harsh even for the message I was pushing, as the picture itself is not a harsh picture, it has mostly light green and black as its dominant colors. To fix this, I made the text Franklin Gothic *italic,* which I think actually softens it a little bit, as it's more curvy and slanted, but also emphasizes these very important lines. 